CSS in reactJs with Bootstrap (#1258)
Techtonica/curriculum: react-js/styling-react.md

# Styling in React

### Projected Time : 1 hr
- Lesson: 40 mins.
- Guided Practice: 20 mins.

### Prerequisites
- [CSS Lesson](/css/css)
- [Bootstrap Lesson](/bootstrap/bootstrap)
- [React Lesson](react)

### Motivation

Styling has been one of the building blocks of web development. Cascading Style Sheets is a style sheet language used for describing the presentation of a document written in a markup language like HTML. React only provides a virtual DOM, whereas the presentation part still lies with CSS.

### Objectives

- Styling in JS Framework.
- Inline styling and using external Stylesheet.
- Bootstrap in React.	 

### Specific Things To Learn

- Defining styles as objects.
- Importing stylesheets into react application.

### Materials

- [Video: Styling of React App in 3 different ways](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j5P9FHiBVNo) - Using external CSS, internal and CSS modules.
- [Video: Bootstrap in React](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wdbzLi0tWq0) - Bootstrap in React can be used using CDN or by installing the package. 

### Lesson

- [Slides: CSS in React ](https://drive.google.com/open?id=15oauTP4afibqMvNKW5XgVC1qraYUKxY-)

### Guided Practice

> > #### Creating a simple div with InLine and External CSS and converting it into Bootstrap.

Reviewer: Are you telling them they should create this themselves right now? Add step-by-step setup directions. Should they touch a new file or a replit? Are you expecting them to start a new create-react-app? Should they run it at any point?

1. Inline And External CSS
  - App.js

>     - Creating a simple div using and add custom styling to it.

Reviewer: Can you explain a little more about what’s happening? Instead of “creating...”, say something like”here’s an example of...” Which one is inline, and which one is external? https://medium.com/@oleg008/inline-styles-vs-css-f8c1c926bb63
Maybe use the class name, like calling it parent or parent div and having the inner one be Child? Plus those terms are more dev-oriented than inner and outer. It will be total beginners reading this, so we want to take every opportunity to be clear.

    - ```
      <div className="my-div">
		<div style={{backgroundColor:"red"}}>Inner Div 1</div>
		<div style={{backgroundColor:"blue"}}>Inner Div 2</div>
		<div style={{backgroundColor:"green"}}>Inner Div 3</div>
	  </div>
      ```

>   - CSS 

Reviewer: Where is this? Should they make a new file? What should they call it? How do they link it? Please tell them clearly, this is Guided Practice.

    - Make the *div* inside *my-div* class as flex box and add a little bit of padding.
    - ```
       .my-div
	   {
	     margin: 10px 0;
	     display: flex;
	     width: 100vw;
	     background-color: darkorange;
       }
      .my-div div
	  {
	   flex-basis: 25%;
	   max-width: 25%;
	   padding: 10px;
      }
      ```
2. Using Bootstrap

>   - App.js

Reviewer: Please explain how this one is different. What should the apprentice notice?

>   - App.js

Reviewer: Please tell them what they are doing next and why. “Using bootstrap” isn’t enough. How will they know that it worked? Should they change the same file or make a new one?

    - ```
	    <div className="row mt-2 mb-2" style={{backgroundColor:"darkorange"}}>
		<div className="col-3 p-2" style={{backgroundColor:"red"}}>Inner Div 1</div>
		<div className="col-3 p-2" style={{backgroundColor:"blue"}}>Inner Div 2</div>
		<div className="col-3 p-2" style={{backgroundColor:"green"}}>Inner Div 3</div>
		</div>
      ```

### Common Mistakes & Misconceptions

> 

Reviewer: Wait, is this a bad thing? I have to admit I don’t understand this point, can you reword it? What would be the wrong thing to do? What should they do instead?

- Combining different classes based on certain state/props.
  - When a component is receiving a prop and depending upon the value of that prop the CSS is rendered.
  ```
	<button className = {this.props.color ? "error" : "" + "btn-class" }>ButtonComp </button>
  ```
  - If color is received as prop by the component then **className** will be 
    - > className = "error btn-class" 
  - else
    - > className = "btn-class"

- Wrong path provided while importing CSS.
  

>   - If the path provided for external CSS file or module in the JSX file is incorrect then react throws an error i.e it will not be able to build the webpack.

Reviewer: What does the error look like?

Author: The image of the error is attached in the slides.

- CamelCase is supported in ReactJS for CSS styles.

> 	- using **class** instead of **className** gives warning.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	- Using **class** instead of **className** causes a console warning.
```

> 	- error encounters if any inline CSS property is used as **two words** like **background-color** because inline CSS is treated as an object in react.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	- If any inline style property is used as **two words** like **background-color**, you will encounter an error.  This is because these styles are not in a .css file. They are in JSX (Javascript extension for React), so it is actually a JS object; and JS cannot parse dashes. Also note the double curly-braces. The outer set of braces means “now instead of React JSX, what’s in these braces will be pure JavaScript.”  style={}. Then inside is a JS object {backgroundColor: “red”}.
```

> 	- > Incorrect Way - ``` <button style={{background-color:"red" }}> ```

Reviewer: 👍

	- > Correct Way   ``` <button style={{backgroundColor:"red"}} > ```

	
### Supplemental Materials
- [React Strap](https://reactstrap.github.io/) - Provides predefined components for React styled with Bootstrap.
  - Why to choose Reactstrap ?

>     - Directly use components instead of  bootstrap typing classes and passing attributes as props.

Reviewer: Please put these lines in a syntax that uses “With Reactstrap, you can...” or “It allows you to...”

# Styling in React

### Projected Time : 1 hr
- Lesson: 40 mins.
- Guided Practice: 20 mins.

### Prerequisites
- [CSS Lesson](/css/css)
- [Bootstrap Lesson](/bootstrap/bootstrap)
- [React Lesson](react)

### Motivation

Styling has been one of the building blocks of web development. Cascading Style Sheets is a style sheet language used for describing the presentation of a document written in a markup language like HTML. React only provides a virtual DOM, whereas the presentation part still lies with CSS.

### Objectives

- Styling in JS Framework.
- Inline styling and using external Stylesheet.
- Bootstrap in React.	 

### Specific Things To Learn

- Defining styles as objects.
- Importing stylesheets into react application.

### Materials

- [Video: Styling of React App in 3 different ways](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j5P9FHiBVNo) - Using external CSS, internal and CSS modules.
- [Video: Bootstrap in React](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wdbzLi0tWq0) - Bootstrap in React can be used using CDN or by installing the package. 

### Lesson

- [Slides: CSS in React ](https://drive.google.com/open?id=15oauTP4afibqMvNKW5XgVC1qraYUKxY-)

### Guided Practice

> > #### Let's create a simple div of flex box using InLine CSS then we will achieve same using External CSS and Bootstrap separately.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> #### Let's create a simple div, and style it using inline CSS and flexbox.  Then we will achieve same using External CSS and Bootstrap separately.
```
"we will achieve same using External CSS and Bootstrap separately." Can you rephrase this? Do you mean External CSS and Bootstrap separately from the inline one above, or are we doing 3 things: inline, then external, and last Bootstrap?

Author: We are doing same thing in 3 different ways using , Inline CSS then by external CSS and finally using Bootstrap.

- First thing we need to do is create a react application.
	- Create a react app using create react app command. `npx create-react-app`.
    - This will create a simple react app , and now we will start making changes to this app.
	- First of all get rid of all the unnecessary stuff showing on DOM , remove all the lines in render of `App.js`. 
	- Now we create a simple div **parent div** which will contain few div as *child* elements.
	- After creating that , your ``App.js`` will look like this 
	- ```

> 		import React from 'react';

Reviewer: This is great!  Please fix the indentation in the example.

Author: Okay sure.

		import './App.css';

		function App() {
  		return (
    	<div className="App">
      	<div> {/* Start Parent Div */}
	  	{/* Child Div */}
		<div>Child Div 1</div>
		<div>Child Div 2</div>
		<div>Child Div 3</div>
	  	</div>
	 	{/* Child Div */}
		</div>

> 		/* End of Parent Div */

Reviewer: Doesn't this need brackets too?
```suggestion
		{/* End of Parent Div */}
```

Author: Actually , I wanted to show the comments to make it clear. So ya brackets are necessary in react.

# Styling in React

### Projected Time : 1 hr
- Lesson: 40 mins.
- Guided Practice: 20 mins.

### Prerequisites

> - [CSS Lesson](/css/css)

Reviewer: These three are broken. 1. The files should probably be named .md. 2. search for the file name, such as css.md, to see if the path was changed.  I think css and bootstrap are now in the /web/ folder.

- [Bootstrap Lesson](/bootstrap/bootstrap)
- [React Lesson](react)

### Motivation

Styling has been one of the building blocks of web development. Cascading Style Sheets is a style sheet language used for describing the presentation of a document written in a markup language like HTML. React only provides a virtual DOM, whereas the presentation part still lies with CSS.

### Objectives

> - Styling in JS Framework.

Reviewer: framework?  do you mean JSX?

> - Inline styling and using external Stylesheet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Inline styling and using external stylesheets.
```

- Bootstrap in React.	 

### Specific Things To Learn

- Defining styles as objects.

> - Importing stylesheets into react application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Importing stylesheets into React application.
```

Please make sure all proper names like React and Bootstrap are capitalized, and non-proper nouns like 'inline' are not.

Reviewer: I am not sure why you resolved this, as you didn't make the change.

Reviewer: Why do you keep resolving this, it’s important.

### Materials

> - [Video: Styling of React App in 3 different ways](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j5P9FHiBVNo) - Using external CSS, internal and CSS modules.

Reviewer: are we using "CSS Modules" anywhere now?  I don't see it.

Author: Yes it is similar to External CSS. But it is important to know, in case of multiple CSS file.

- [Video: Bootstrap in React](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wdbzLi0tWq0) - Bootstrap in React can be used using CDN or by installing the package. 

### Lesson

- [Slides: CSS in React ](https://drive.google.com/open?id=15oauTP4afibqMvNKW5XgVC1qraYUKxY-)

### Guided Practice

> #### Let's create a simple div, and style it using inline CSS and flexbox.  Then we will achieve same using External CSS and Bootstrap separately.

> - First thing we need to do is create a react application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- First, we need to create a React application.
```

Please capitalize all instances of `React`

1. Using Inline CSS 
    1. Let us give a background color and some margin on top and bottom to parent element and make its display as flex.  
	 > ``` <div style={ { margin:"10px 0", backgroundColor:"orange", display:"flex"}} > ``` 
    2. Now add ``background-color`` to each **child div** with some padding and flex basis.
	> ``` <div style={{flexBasis:"25%",padding:"10px",backgroundColor:"green"}}>Child Div 1</div> ``` 
	3. Your ``App.js`` will look like -

	```
       <div className="App">
	   		{{/* Start of Parent Div */}}
      		<div style={{margin:"10px 0",backgroundColor:"orange",display:"flex"}}>
			{{/* Start of Child Divs */}}  
			<div style={{flexBasis:"25%",padding:"10px",backgroundColor:"green"}}>Child Div 1</div>
			<div style= {{flexBasis:"25%",padding:"10px",backgroundColor:"red"}} >Child Div 2</div>
			<div style={{flexBasis:"25%",padding:"10px",backgroundColor:"blue"}}>Child Div 3</div>
	  		</div>
			{{/* End of Parent Div */}}  
		</div>
      ```
2. Using External CSS 
    1. Create an external CSS file and add a parent class with same styling as you did in Inline CSS.
	2. Create a class for each **child element**.
	3. Your CSS file will look like -
		- ```

>        		.parent {

Reviewer: please look at the markdown preview - all of these code samples' indentation is a bit weird.

Reviewer: ![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/29131689/77262107-bf3f4680-6c50-11ea-996c-ea5e4528d813.png)

### Lesson

- [Slides: CSS in React ](https://drive.google.com/open?id=15oauTP4afibqMvNKW5XgVC1qraYUKxY-)

### Guided Practice

> #### Let's create a simple div, and style it using inline CSS and flexbox.  Then we will achieve same using External CSS and Bootstrap separately.

- First, we need to create a React application.
	- Create a React app using create React app command. `npx create-react-app`.
    - This will create a simple React app , and now we will start making changes to this app.
	- First of all get rid of all the unnecessary stuff showing on DOM , remove all the lines in render of `App.js`. 
	- Now we create a simple div **parent div** which will contain few div as *child* elements.
	- After creating that , your ``App.js`` will look like this 
	 - ```
		import React from 'react';
		import './App.css';

		function App() {
  		  return (
    		<div className="App">
      		{/* Start Parent Div */}
			  <div>
	  		    {/* Start of Child Divs */}
				<div>Child Div 1</div>
				<div>Child Div 2</div>
				<div>Child Div 3</div>
				{/* End of Child Divs */}

> 	  			</div>

Reviewer: Don't line 61 and 63 need to line up with line 53 and 55?

        <div className="App">
		  {/* Start of Parent Div */}
      		<div className="parent">
			  {/* Start of Child Divs */}
			  <div className="child1">Child Div 1</div>
			  <div className="child2" >Child Div 2</div>
			  <div className="child3">Child Div 3</div>
			  {/* End of Child Divs */}
	  		</div>
			{/* End of Parent Div */}  
		</div>
  		);
	}

	export default App;

	```

3. Using Bootstrap
	1. Let's add Bootstrap CDN in index.html file.
	2. Create a row and make child **div** as `col-3`.
	3. Since Bootstrap has different colors, we have to add `backgroundColor` as inline CSS to differentiate between child element **div**.
	4. `App.js` will look like -
    - ```
	  <div className="App">
		{/* Start of Parent Div */}	
          <div className="row mt-2 mb-2" style={{backgroundColor:"darkorange"}}>
		    {/* Start of Child Divs */}
			 <div className="col-3 p-2" style={{backgroundColor:"green"}}>Child Div 1</div>
			 <div className="col-3 p-2" style={{backgroundColor:"red"}}>Child Div 2</div>
			 <div className="col-3 p-2" style={{backgroundColor:"blue"}}>Child Div 3</div>
			 {/* End of Child Divs */}
		</div>
		{/* End of Parent Div */}
	  </div>
      ```

> ### Common Mistakes and their Correction

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Common Mistakes and Misconceptions
```

- Combining different classes based on certain state/props.

>   - When a component is receiving a prop and depending upon the value of that prop the CSS is rendered.

Reviewer: Can you make it clear whether the following example is a mistake, or the correct way to do it?  You've already made it clear for "Wrong path" and "Camelcase", but not this one.

Reviewer: Just this and transferring the slides, and you’re done ✅

Reviewer: I changed the label to hard, as I appreciate how much work you put into the slides.

Author: Thank you @alodahl , I have transferred the ownership of slides and also covered this in the new commit.

# Styling in ReactJS

### Projected Time : 1 hr
- Lesson: 40 mins.
- Independent Practice: 20 mins.

### Prerequisites

> - CSS: [css](../css/css.md)

Reviewer: Can you title these the way their respective files are titled, and add the word "Outline" or "Lesson"?  Also, there's not need for `.` or `..`. 
example: 
-  [CSS Lesson](/css/css.md)

> - CSS: [css](../css/css.md)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [CSS](/css/css.md)
```

- Bootstrap: [bootstrap](../bootstrap/bootstrap.md)
- ReactJs: [reactJs](./react.md)

### Motivation

Styling has been one of the building blocks of web development. Cascading Style Sheets is a style sheet language used for describing the presentation of a document written in a markup language like HTML. React only provides a virtual DOM , whereas the presentation part still lies with CSS.

### Objectives

- Styling in JS Framework.
- Inline styling and using external Stylesheet.
- Bootstrap in React.	 

### Specific Things To Learn

- Defining styles as objects.
- Importing stylesheets into reactJs application.

### Materials

- [Styling of ReactJs App in 3 different ways](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j5P9FHiBVNo) - Using external css, internal and css modules.
- [Bootstrap in React](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wdbzLi0tWq0) - Bootstrap in ReactJs can be used using CDN or by installing the package. 

### Lesson

> - [Techtonica sildes: CSS in ReactJs ](https://drive.google.com/open?id=15oauTP4afibqMvNKW5XgVC1qraYUKxY-)

Author: I am not able to transfer the ownership as the option is not available. Kindly guide me how to do that.
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/36301481/76337635-a57f3480-631d-11ea-8dc9-4a04e4576ef3.png)

> - [Techtonica sildes: CSS in ReactJs ](https://drive.google.com/open?id=15oauTP4afibqMvNKW5XgVC1qraYUKxY-)

Reviewer 2: Have a look at this https://support.google.com/drive/answer/2494892

> - [Techtonica sildes: CSS in ReactJs ](https://drive.google.com/open?id=15oauTP4afibqMvNKW5XgVC1qraYUKxY-)

Author: I saw this already , not getting option to change the owner. @Kundan28

> - [Techtonica sildes: CSS in ReactJs ](https://drive.google.com/open?id=15oauTP4afibqMvNKW5XgVC1qraYUKxY-)

Reviewer: This is likely because it is a pptx and not a google slides doc.  Please transfer it to a google slides doc and then transfer ownership.

> - [Techtonica sildes: CSS in ReactJs ](https://drive.google.com/open?id=15oauTP4afibqMvNKW5XgVC1qraYUKxY-)

Reviewer: It would be nice to have edit access to the pptx, though.

### Common Mistakes & Misconceptions

> - Combining different classes based on certain state/props.

Author: Sure.

- Wrong path provided while importing CSS.

> - CamelCase is supported in ReactJS for CSS styles.

Reviewer: Maybe have these in the lesson... why does it need to be camelcase?  What will happen if it's not? what would happen if they put "classname" or "background-image" or "font-family"?

> 

Author: Added

# Styling in React

### Projected Time : 1 hr
- Lesson: 40 mins.
- Guided Practice: 20 mins.

### Prerequisites
- [CSS Lesson](../css/css.md)
- [Bootstrap Lesson](../bootstrap/bootstrap.md)

> - [React Lesson](./react.md)

Reviewer 2: @alodahl Already told that Also, there's not need for `.` or `..`.

# Styling in ReactJS

### Projected Time

Example: 30-40 minutes
- Lesson: 20-30 min
- Independent Practice: 10-20 min

### Prerequisites
- CSS: [css](../css/css.md)
- Bootstarp: [bootstrap](../bootstrap/bootstrap.md)
- ReactJs: [react](./react.md)

### Motivation

> Styling has been one of the building blocks of web development. Cascading Style Sheets is a style sheet language used for describing the presentation of a document written in a markup language like HTML. React only provides a virtual DOM , whereas the presentation part still lies with CSS.

Reviewer 2: Remove white-space after DOM.

### Specific Things To Learn

- Defining styles as objects.
- Importing stylesheets into react application.

### Materials

> - [Styling of React App in 3 different ways](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j5P9FHiBVNo) - Using external css, internal and css modules.

Reviewer 2: css -> CSS

    - ```
       .my-div
	   {
	     margin: 10px 0;
	     display: flex;
	     width: 100vw;
	     background-color: darkorange;
       }
      .my-div div
	  {
	   flex-basis: 25%;
	   max-width: 25%;
	   padding: 10px;
      }
      ```
2. Using Bootstrap
  - App.js
    - ```
	    <div className="row mt-2 mb-2" style={{backgroundColor:"darkorange"}}>
		<div className="col-3 p-2" style={{backgroundColor:"red"}}>Inner Div 1</div>
		<div className="col-3 p-2" style={{backgroundColor:"blue"}}>Inner Div 2</div>
		<div className="col-3 p-2" style={{backgroundColor:"green"}}>Inner Div 3</div>
		</div>
      ```

### Common Mistakes & Misconceptions

- Combining different classes based on certain state/props.
  - When a component is receiving a prop and depending upon the value of that prop the CSS is rendered.
  ```
	<button className = {this.props.color ? "error" : "" + "btn-class" }>ButtonComp </button>
  ```
  - If color is received as prop by the component then **className** will be 
    - > className = "error btn-class" 
  - else
    - > className = "btn-class"

- Wrong path provided while importing CSS.
  

>   - If the path provided for external css file or module in the JSX file is incorrect then react throws an error i.e it will not be able to build the webpack.

Reviewer 2: css -> CSS

### Lesson

> - [Techtonica sildes: CSS in ReactJs ](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1xVsjUzPsNGq2sPaoNvc0eLLXy2Zm3kVk)

Reviewer 2: @alodahl Is it necessary to mention `Techtonica sildes` ?

	
### Supplemental Materials
- [React Strap](https://reactstrap.github.io/) - Provides predefined components for React styled with Bootstrap.
  - Why to choose Reactstrap ?
    - Directly use components instead of  bootstrap typing classes and passing attributes as props.

> 	- Closely relate bootstrap to react.

Reviewer 2: react -> React
